# Senior-Java-Developer
A Senior Java Developer will be responsible for reviewing specifications and then designing, coding and testing software components. You may be working independently on a project, or as part of a small team. As a Senior Developer you will be expected to assist and mentor the Junior Developers. You will also participate in code reviews of your own work as well as that of your co-workers. Qualifications: You are the type of candidate we are looking for if: • Can read this job description in English • You strive to always right clean, well-formatted, and commented code that is intended to run for years and be easily maintainable. • Are not afraid to refactor the code base to prevent bit rot • You know when your code will perform well, and what parts of it may not, but you also know when it is too early to start optimizing it. • You are willing to share information freely, mentor other more junior developers, and write documentation. • You are organized. You know what still needs to be done to complete your current project(s) and have a good idea of how long it will take. Skill Sets • 4 or more years experience in the role of a Java Software Developer • Must be able to read technical documentation in English, such as requirement specifications and application designs. – It is a big plus if you can write and/or speak in English. • Expert command of all core Java 1.5+ features: Collections, I/O, Serlvets, Threads, etc. • Must have experience with Java Server Pages (JSP) or other related Java-based UI frameworks. • Strong skills with all basic web technologies: HTML 4 and 5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery • Comfortable with writing SQL queries and stored procedures 1 • Must have prior experience using a version control system for managing source code. Git, subversion, ClearCase, Perforce, etc. • It is a plus if you experience with any of the following – Mule ESB – JPA and Hibernate persistence framework – Spring framework: beans, web, orm and transaction modules. – Apache CXF for SOAP and/or RESTful web services – Bash shell scripting in Linux Junior Java Developer Responsibilities A Junior Java Developer will be responsible for reviewing specifications and then designing, coding and testing software components. You will be working as part of small team, with at least one Senior developer in the role of a mentor. You will also participate in code reviews of your own work as well as that of your co-workers. Qualifications You are the type of candidate we are looking for if: • Can read this job description in English • You have a passion for software development. • Are always curious how things work. • You are not afraid to jump into a project even when you do not yet understand, but are not afraid to ask questions either. Requirements • 1 or 2 years experience in the role of a Software Developer (does not have to be Java) – Or finished university with a Ingeniería Informática degree or equivalent, and able to demonstrate your work in a personal or university project that you completed. • Must be able to read technical documentation in English, such as requirement specifications and application designs. – It is a big plus if you can write and/or speak in English. • Basic understanding of code Java 1.5+: Collections, I/O, Servlets, Threads, etc. • Basic understanding of Java Server Pages (JSP) or other related Java-based UI frameworks. • Must have at least a basic competency in core web techologies: HTML 4 and 5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery • Comfortable with writing basic SQL queries • It is a plus if you have prior experience using a version control system (git, subversion, etc) • Understanding of any of the following is a huge plus: – Mule ESB – JPA and Hibernate persistence framework – Spring framework: beans, web, orm and transaction modules. – Apache CXF for SOAP and/or RESTful web services – Bash shell scripting in Linux
